Kubernetes:
Kubernetes is open source container orchestration software.It helps moving from host centric infrastructure to container centric infrastructure.

Key features:
Continues development,, integration and deployment
Containerized infrastructure
Application--centric management
Auto--scalable infrastructure
Environment consistency across development testing and production
Loosely coupled infrastructure,, where each component can act as a separate unit
Higher density of resource utilization
Predictable infrastructure which is going to be created

Kubernetes Architecture:
Master components:
etcd: It is highly available distributed key value store,which is used to store cluster wide secretes.It is only accessable by Kubenetes api server as it contains sensitive information.
API Server: It exposed Kubernetes API.Kubernetes API is the front end for the kubernetes control plane and is used to deploy and execute all operations in kubernetes.Kubeconfig is package along with server side tools that can be used for communication.
Scheduler: takes care of scheduling of all processes and the dynamic resource management and manages present and future events on the cluster. Responsible for workload utilzation and allocating pod to new pod.
Controller manager: Runs all controllers in kubernetes cluster. Each controller is seperate process but to reduce complexity all processes are compiled into a single process.In general it acts as daemon which runs in non terminating loop and is reponsible for collecting and sending information to API Server.
Node controller
replication controller
endpoint controller
service accounts
token controller

Slave node components:
Docker: Helps in running the encapsulated application containers in a relatively isolated but lightweight operating environment.
Kubelet: Takes the specification from API server and ensure application is running according to specification which were mentioned. Each node has its own kubelet service.It interacts with etcd for configuration details and right values.It manages port forwarding and network rules etc.
Kube proxy: runs on each node and helps in making services available to the external host. It helps in connection forwarding to the correct resources. Also capable of doing primitive load balancing.

Installation methods:
Kubeadm: Automates the installation. Automates the configuration of kubernetes components. API server,Controller manager,Kube DNS.
Minikube: Virtuaised environment for kubernetes
Kops: Kubernetes for AWS
Kubernetes for GCP


PODS contain one or more containers coupled togather. They are basic unit of Kubernetes. To increase HA, we always prefer pods to be in replicas.
Services are used to load balance the traffic among PODS. It follow round-robin distribution among the healthy pods.

An ingress is an object that allows access to your kubernetes services from outside the kubernetes cluster.You can access by creating collection of rules that define which inbound connection reach which service.

Deployment in kubernetes is a controller which helps your application reach the desired state; desired state is defied inside deployment file.
Deployment file is Yaml format.
For example if you want to deployment file nginx.yaml use below syntax:
kubectl create -f nginx.yaml
